README.md, before:

# Postmark Webhooks for Laravel
You want to accept webhooks from PostmarkApp.com for eamils you have sent. This package makes it easy to do that.

This no-frills package will allow you to accept webhooks from PostmarkApp.com and then fire an event that you can listen for in your application. 

There are no added migrations, no models, only a single event that you can listen for and then do whatever you want with the payload.

It is configurable, easy to use and has middleware firewall to ensure the webhooks are coming from PostmarkApp.com.

## Installation

You can install this package using composer:

``` bash
composer require citricguy/laravel-postmark-webhooks
```

## Configure webhooks in your Postmark account

On the servers page of your Postmark account choose the server and stream you would like to receive webhooks from.

Once there, go to 'settings' -> 'webhooks' -> 'add webhook'.

Add your webhook URL which is `https://<your-domain.com>/api/postmark/webhook` by default.

Select the events Postmark should send to your webhook and then save.

## Event Configuration
Listening for the `PostmarkWebhookReceived` event is the primary way we'll interact with the webhooks.

If you haven't used events or listener before, please see the laravel documentation regarding [events](https://laravel.com/docs/10.x/events).

In short, we'll create a listener, register it in our `EventServiceProvider` and then handle the event in our listener.
```php
/**
 * The event listener mappings for the application.
 *
 * @var array
 */
protected $listen = [
    PostmarkWebhookCalled::class => [
        ListenerClasses::class, // Create with `php artisan make:listener <listener name>`
    ],
];
```

Here is an example listener: 

```php
<?php

namespace App\Listeners;

use Citricguy\PostmarkWebhooks\Events\PostmarkWebhookReceived;
class ProcessPostmarkWebhooks
{
    /**
     * Create the event listener.
     */
    public function __construct()
    {
        //
    }

    /**
     * Handle the event.
     */
    public function handle(PostmarkWebhookReceived $event): void
    {

        // Do your work here.

        // You can access the payload here with: $event->payload.
        // The email address, message ID and record type are also available:
        // $event->email;
        // $event->recordType;
        // $event->messageId;
        
    }
}
```

## Advanced Configuration

Though not necessary, if you would like to configure the webhook's path, basic-auth or disable the auth middleware you can publish the config file.

```bash
php artisan vendor:publish --provider="Citricguy\PostmarkWebhooks\PostmarkWebhooksServiceProvider" --tag="config"
```

You can change your settings in that config, or use your .env file instead if you prefer. 

The following .env values are available:

```dotenv
POSTMARK_WEBHOOK_PATH=/api/postmark/webhook
POSTMARK_WEBHOOK_FIREWALL_ENABLED=true
POSTMARK_WEBHOOK_AUTH_USER=
POSTMARK_WEBHOOK_AUTH_PASS=
```

## About the Firewall
By default, the firewall is disabled unless you are in a 'production' environment. (i.e. `APP_ENV=production`).

The middleware will do 'basic-auth' if configured. To use this feature, you will need to configure your Postmark webhook to include Basic auth credentials by configuring your wehbook on PostmarkApp.com.

Finally, you will need to set up your .env file:

```dotenv
POSTMARK_WEBHOOK_AUTH_USER=<username matching webhook configuration>
POSTMARK_WEBHOOK_AUTH_PASS=<password matching webhook configuration>
```

The middleware also confirms the source of the webhook is from PostmarkApp.com. This is done by checking the IP address of the request against the [list of IP addresses](https://postmarkapp.com/support/article/800-ips-for-firewalls#webhooks) provided by PostmarkApp.com.

To disable the firewall, set `POSTMARK_WEBHOOK_FIREWALL_ENABLED=false` in your .env file or simply be in any environment except for production.

## Testing

``` bash
$ composer test
```

## Credits

Inspired by [Laravel Postmark Webooks](https://github.com/mvdnbrk/laravel-postmark-webhooks). This project is a simpler alternative that does not include any models or migrations. It also allows for basic-auth webhook integration with PostmarkApp.


## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.

Commit message:

Updated README.md to include requirements and a better explanation as to what and why you would use this project.

README.md, after:

# Postmark Webhooks for Laravel
You're looking for an easy to implement package, that accepts webhooks from PostmarkApp.com. This package does just that.

This no-frills solution provides a simple api to accept webhooks from PostmarkApp.com and then fire an event that you can listen for in your application. 

There are no added migrations, no models, only a single event that you can listen for and then do whatever you want with the payload.

It is configurable, easy to use and utilizes middleware to ensure the webhooks are coming from PostmarkApp.com.

Because we're starting fresh and trying to keep this as maintainable and reliable as possible, we're using the latest version of Laravel and PHP. 

### Requirements
- Laravel 10.x
- PHP 8.2
- An active PostmarkApp.com account.

## Installation
You can install this package using composer:

``` bash
composer require citricguy/laravel-postmark-webhooks
```

## Configure webhooks in your Postmark account

On the servers page of your Postmark account choose the server and stream you would like to receive webhooks from.

Once there, go to 'settings' -> 'webhooks' -> 'add webhook'.

Add your webhook URL which is `https://<your-domain.com>/api/postmark/webhook` by default.

Select the events Postmark should send to your webhook and then save.

## Event Configuration
Listening for the `PostmarkWebhookReceived` event is the primary way we'll interact with the webhooks.

If you haven't used events or listener before, please see the laravel documentation regarding [events](https://laravel.com/docs/10.x/events).

In short, we'll create a listener, register it in our `EventServiceProvider` and then handle the event in our listener.
```php
/**
 * The event listener mappings for the application.
 *
 * @var array
 */
protected $listen = [
    PostmarkWebhookCalled::class => [
        ListenerClasses::class, // Create with `php artisan make:listener <listener name>`
    ],
];
```

Here is an example listener: 

```php
<?php

namespace App\Listeners;

use Citricguy\PostmarkWebhooks\Events\PostmarkWebhookReceived;
class ProcessPostmarkWebhooks
{
    /**
     * Create the event listener.
     */
    public function __construct()
    {
        //
    }

    /**
     * Handle the event.
     */
    public function handle(PostmarkWebhookReceived $event): void
    {

        // Do your work here.

        // You can access the payload here with: $event->payload.
        // The email address, message ID and record type are also available:
        // $event->email;
        // $event->recordType;
        // $event->messageId;
        
    }
}
```

## Advanced Configuration

Though not necessary, if you would like to configure the webhook's path, basic-auth or disable the auth middleware you can publish the config file.

```bash
php artisan vendor:publish --provider="Citricguy\PostmarkWebhooks\PostmarkWebhooksServiceProvider" --tag="config"
```

You can change your settings in that config, or use your .env file instead if you prefer. 

The following .env values are available:

```dotenv
POSTMARK_WEBHOOK_PATH=/api/postmark/webhook
POSTMARK_WEBHOOK_FIREWALL_ENABLED=true
POSTMARK_WEBHOOK_AUTH_USER=
POSTMARK_WEBHOOK_AUTH_PASS=
```

## About the Firewall
By default, the firewall is disabled unless you are in a 'production' environment. (i.e. `APP_ENV=production`).

The middleware will do 'basic-auth' if configured. To use this feature, you will need to configure your Postmark webhook to include Basic auth credentials by configuring your wehbook on PostmarkApp.com.

Finally, you will need to set up your .env file:

```dotenv
POSTMARK_WEBHOOK_AUTH_USER=<username matching webhook configuration>
POSTMARK_WEBHOOK_AUTH_PASS=<password matching webhook configuration>
```

The middleware also confirms the source of the webhook is from PostmarkApp.com. This is done by checking the IP address of the request against the [list of IP addresses](https://postmarkapp.com/support/article/800-ips-for-firewalls#webhooks) provided by PostmarkApp.com.

To disable the firewall, set `POSTMARK_WEBHOOK_FIREWALL_ENABLED=false` in your .env file or simply be in any environment except for production.

## Testing

``` bash
$ composer test
```

## Credits

Inspired by [Laravel Postmark Webooks](https://github.com/mvdnbrk/laravel-postmark-webhooks). This project is a simpler alternative that does not include any models or migrations. It also allows for basic-auth webhook integration with PostmarkApp.


## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.
